Hi, Mystery Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain the American drama
thriller film called “Us.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
It is 1896 in Santa Cruz.
Addy is out with her parents at a carnival
at Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk.
She looks around the carnival...noticing various
activities going around her.
Her mother is going to the bathroom, while
her father is playing a game.
Addy is left unattended, so she wanders off
to look around.
First, she goes to a beach by the carnival;
then she enters a funhouse.
The lights suddenly go out ,and Addy is stuck
in a house of mirrors.
Suddenly, she encounters her doppelganger.
Cut to the present day, a family of four drives
to Santa Cruz, California.
Addy is now all grown up, and is the mother
of two kids, Zora and Jason.
After hours of journey, they arrive at Addy's
childhood home in Santa Cruz.
At lunch, Gabe Wilson, her husband, insists
on going to the Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk
that night for fun.
Addy remembers to this day what that night
at the funhouse had done to her.
She is haunted by memories of the encounter
and her recovery, during which she stopped
speaking for a while.
She doesn’t want to go there again...but
Gabe successfully persuades her.
The family then drives to the beach.
On their way to the beach, they are having
fun in their car.
Zora makes fun of Jason’s magic fire ring.
At one point, they witness paramedics taking
away a body of an old man, with blood on his chest
As they arrive at the beach, they meet their
friends: Josh Tyler, Kitty Tyler, and their
twin daughters.
As the two families are relaxing, Jason goes
to the bathroom.
While returning, he is shocked to see a man
who looks similar to the dead man they had
seen earlier.
Addy notices Jason missing and gets very scared.
When she finally finds Jason, they decide
to return home.
At night, Addy tells Gabe about her encounter
with her doppelganger when she was young.
However, Gabe doesn’t seem to believe her.
As they talk, the lights go out.
Suddenly, Jason arrives and tells his parents
about a family standing in their driveway.
They look through the window and see a family
of four standing there.
Zora comes out too.
Addy freaks out and calls the police, as Gabe
goes out to tell them to go away.
But the family doesn’t answer, and just
stands there.
Gabe takes a baseball bat and goes out again.
This time, they start walking towards him.
He feels threatened, so he comes inside and
locks the doors.
However, the people outside find a hidden
key and come inside.
The family is surprised to notice that the
intruders are their doppelgangers.
They corner the family in their own living
room...threatening them with scissors.
They make them sit in front of them.
Jason’s doppelganger is Pluto...who loves
fire; Zora’s double is a sadist named Umbrae;
Gabe’s double is Abraham; and the group
leader seems to be Addy’s double...named
Red.
She is the only one who can speak ,and has
a guttural and raspy voice.
Red tells them that they are the Wilson family's
shadow, and are called "the Tethered".
The tethered share a soul with their lookalike
counterparts and have been living as their
shadows their whole life.
But now, they have come to "untether" themselves.
Red tells them a story about a girl and her
shadow...referring to herself and Addy.
While Addy ate good and warm food, Red had
to eat raw blooded rabbits.
Addy was given soft toys to play with, while
Red’s toys were sharp and cold.
Addy met Gabe, her loving prince, but Red
had to marry Abraham because he was tethered
to Gabe.
Similarly, Addy gave birth to a loving daughter,
Zora, but Red gave birth to a sadistic monster,
Umbrae.
At last, she says that Addy had doctors to
operate on her and help her birth, but Red
had to do it all herself.
Red has come to despise Addy and her perfect
life.
So, they have come out of the shadows to claim
their life.
After explaining, Red makes Addy handcuff
herself to the table.
Abraham drags Gabe away to the other room.
Umbrae chases Zora through the streets...while
Pluto forces Jason to play with him.
The intruders’ plan is to separate the Wilsons,
terrorize them, and kill them.
Pluto and Jason are playing with fire in a
tiny room... where Jason sees Pluto’s scarred
face for the first time.
Zora is hunted down by Umbrae.
As she is about to stab her with a pair of
scissors, a man stops her.
Zora runs away as Umbrae stabs the man to
death.
Meanwhile, Abraham hits Gabe, making him go
unconscious.
He then puts him in a garbage bag and into
the boat.
Gabe tears a tiny hole in the bag and notices
the baseball bat beside Abraham.
The boat suddenly stops.
Taking this opportunity, Gabe comes out of
the bag and hits Abraham with the bat, sending
him into the water.
But as the boat starts moving, Gabe falls
in the water as well.
Gabe sees the boat stop and climbs on top
of it.
Just then, Abraham attacks him from behind
but he pushes him back to the water and kills
him.
Gabe then takes the boat towards the house.
Meanwhile, Jason realizes that Pluto mirrors
his actions.
He distracts Pluto with his fire ring and
manages to run out and lock him inside the
room.
Red hears the noise.
She goes in and unlocks the door for Pluto.
She looks around the house for Jason.
Then, she finds Addy’s old stuffed toy and
cuts its head off.
Addy is still cuffed to the table, but she
notices a fireplace poker nearby.
She manages to grab it and free herself of
the cuffs.
She then finds Jason and runs out of the house.
They find Zora in their driveway.
Gabe comes there with his boat at the right
time.
The family immediately gets on it and manages
to escape.
Elsewhere, the Tyler family is in their home
when Kitty hears a noise.
She tells Josh to check what it is.
All of a sudden, their doppelgangers appear
and kill the family within seconds.
Just then, the Wilsons arrive there.
Addy asks Josh’s double for help.
When he opens the door for her, she realizes
that it isn't him, and hits him in the head
with the fireplace poker.
However, It does little to no harm to him.
Others from inside, drag Addy in as well.
Gabe and the kids are outside when imposter
Josh walks towards them.
The kids run away as Gabe runs in the opposite
direction to divert Josh’s attention.
The kids then go inside the house to look
for their mother.
Zora picks a golf club as a weapon.
As they hear Addy screaming from upstairs,
they go up and see the twins’ dead bodies
lying on the floor... as the doppelganger
twins play in the background.
Suddenly, one of them appears in front of
Zora.
She hits her with the bat...making her fall
down the railings.
Next, they are attacked by the other twin.
After a little fight, Zora kills her too.
Kitty’s double is in the bedroom where she
has tied Addy to the bed.
Meanwhile, Gabe runs to the boat and Josh
follows him there.
Gabe then shoots Josh with a flare gun and
attacks him to death.
Kitty sees Gabe killing Josh through the window.
Just then, Zora attacks her from behind, but
Kitty dodges it.
She is about to stab Zora... but Jason saves
her by hitting Kitty on her head.
The Wilsons sit in the living room and try
to comprehend the situation.
The nine one one lines are all busy.
They look at the news and realize that this
has been happening all around the country.
The news says that the doppelgangers are coming
out of the sewers with scissors as weapons.
They are mindlessly stabbing people to death
throughout the country.
They see that the doubles are joining hands
to form a massive human chain after they have
killed their counterparts.
It is as if they have been planning this for
months.
Since the whole country is in attack, Addy
decides to drive along the coast and escape
to Mexico.
As the family gets into the car, Umbrae appears
in front of them.
Zora tries to hit her with the car but Umbrae
jumps onto it.
Zora then stops the car abruptly, sending
her flying into a tree where she is impaled
on a tree branch.
The family then flees from the scene.
They see several dead bodies on their way.
They are stopped by a car burning in the middle
of the road.
Jason’s double, Pluto, appears there.
Addy goes out to fight him while the others
stay in the car.
Soon, Jason realizes that this is actually
a trap.
Pluto intends to ignite the family’s car.
He tells everyone else to get out of it.
Before Pluto can light the match, Jason remembers
that the doppelgangers mirror their movements,
so he starts walking backward.
This makes Pluto walk backward too.
In the end, Pluto reaches the burning car
and burns to death himself.
But just then, Red comes out of her hiding
and kidnaps Jason.
Addy runs after them.
She sees the long human chain of doppelgangers
standing across the beach.
She then reaches the place she had entered
all those years earlier.
She walks around it and finds a door that
leads somewhere downstairs.
A rabbit comes out of the door.
She goes down and discovers a huge place.
It looks like a secret establishment.
She goes down an elevator and enters a huge
hallway with several rooms on either side.
Many rabbits run around the hallway.
She finds Red in one of the rooms that appear
to be a classroom.
The doppelganger human chain is drawn on the
board.
Addy asks her where her son is.
But Red starts blabbering about how they are
human as well.
She then reveals the secret of their existence.
Red explains that "the Tethered", also called
the Shadows, are actually artificial beings
created by the government to control the originals
on the surface for their own twisted purposes.
The project aimed at creating clones that
were connected to the people through their
souls.
The purpose of this project was to use the
clones to control people like puppets all
over America.
But the experiments failed, and the Tethered
were abandoned underground for generations,
mindlessly mimicking the actions of their
counterparts and surviving on rabbit meat.
That night, faith had brought Red and Addy
together.
The other quickly realized that Red was different.
So they selected her as their leader.
They planned this for years.
They wanted vengeance on their counterparts
but more than that, they wanted to create
a statement of their existence.
Hence, they decided to form the human chain.
After Addy’s encounter with Red, her parents
had admitted her to a ballet dance class.
So, Red used to mimic Addy and dance too.
According to her, dancing was the reason that
saved her.
Then, they start to "fight" in the form of
ballet.
Red graciously dodges all of Addy’s attacks.
She has the upper hand in the fight.
Red runs through the hallways...as Addy follows
her with the fireplace poker in her hand.
Their fight grows more and more intense; suddenly
Red leaps at Addy with a pair of scissors
from behind.
But before she can get her, Addy stabs her
with the fireplace poker, killing her.
As Red is on the verge of death, she whistles
the same tune Addy had heard the first time
she met Red.
This agitates Addy, so she strangles Red with
her handcuffs, and kills her maniacally.
She then finds Jason hiding inside a locker
nearby.
They both go outside, and find Gabe and Zora
hiding inside an ambulance.
The family then drives away in the same ambulance.
As Addy drives, we see the flashback of the
night she met Red.
Addy was face to face with Red.
Red suddenly choked her unconscious.
She had then dragged her down to her room
and handcuffed her to the bed.
Red changed into Addy’s clothes and took
her place in real life.
That night, Addy’s parents took home their
daughter’s doppelganger.
This explains why Red is the only Tethered
who could talk and thought differently, leading
the revolt.
Red’s voice is damaged because her double
choked her, damaging her larynx, and making
her voice raspy and guttural.
This also clarifies why Addy, as a child,
wasn’t able to talk after she was found
at the beach.
Shadows don’t know how to speak.
Over time, Addy’s shadow learns to speak
and becomes a regular person...capable of
love and laughter, and forgets that she is
a clone.
The movie ends as we see a several miles-long
human chain formed by the doppelgangers.
Subscribe for more videos like this, turn
on notifications, and leave a like to help
the channel out.
Thank you for watching.